Okay ,so the first thing we're
gonna do is, we're going to
go back to our sidebar and
we're going to get the playlist.
So we actually have like real playlist
in there and not like the hard coded
ones that we made before because
obviously, we don't wanna do that.
So it should be pretty easy, so
if we go to the sidebar, we can go here,
we can see that we have
this play this here.
All we got to do is
import our usePlaylist.
Thing now so I can say usePlaylists
that's gonna import it for
me at the top right there usePlaylists.
And then now I can say const (play
list) = usePlaylists like that.
I can get rid of this playlist.
And the other thing is now,
I think our fake playlists were
my assisting for now,
data is type response, okay?
Okay, once we the type check this let's do
that and then we'll just say, data as any.
There we go.
So good.
Okay, that'll solve that problem.
Don't do this and
[LAUGH] production team are you?
But I don't wanna sit here and
debug TypeScript all day if I said
that was gonna be optional, alright.
So playlists, and like I said before
our my playlists were just strings so
now this is an object so
we need to, obviously fix this.
So now I'll say this will be a playlist,
and this will be a playlist.id.
And this will be playlist.name.
So we have the place ID,
we have the playlist name.
Now we got to make sure we're signed in
with a user that has playlists which I see
the user does.
And we should see some
playlists on the side.
So let's give that a try and obviously,
we didn't make the play this API so
we should like try to get a 404 but just
want to make sure that it's like making
the requests we want to
see what what happens.
So let's sign in to that usertest.com and
then password,
enter it signs in, playlist,
map is not a function and
that's probably because I'm
getting back an error here
because we don't have a playlist routes,
which is expected.
So if we go back and look,
we can see there it is.
There's a 404 that I talked about,
you get a 404 because we don't
have the play this route.
But if we look at the network tab,
what I was trying to verify is that we
actually just made a call to playlist.
So our hook is working.
It's making a call to API slash playlist.
So all we got to do is gonna make this
API routes, we'll get our playlists and
we should be good to go
Friends hooked up though.
So let's do that.
We'll head over to our API we'll make
a new file here called playlists.TS
And we'll fill this out
to have our playlist.
So the first thing is we'll import prisma
from prisma because that's what we've
been using.
We'll import the validate routes cuz
this is gonna be a validator routes
we don't want people coming in here
that don't have access to people
that aren't authenticated to access
this play this page so we'll do that.
And then to actually get the playlist
should be pretty simple so
first we'll say, exports function or
export default and
then we'll just say validate routes,
will pass another thing
in here this will be an a sync function
we have a request, so we have a response.
We're not an add function anymore so
we do have access to Prisma and
things like that, that's why I'm using
this it's just an API function And
we just wanna get all the playlists for
the user that's really all we wanna do so
we could just say const playlist
= awaits prisma.playlists.
And then I mean, there's so
many ways we can do this.
We can go from the playlist and grab,
all the playlists that have this user,
we could go to the user and
just grab all the playlists.
There's no right or wrong way at this
point, because they're both kinda index.
So I think the best way might
just do it from the playlist and
then we'll just say,
findMany where user ID = and
then I'll get this third
argument right here
from this user User oops, user.id.
So give me all the playlists
where user ID = user.id.
And then res.json send the playlists back.
If you come from the user side,
you can say like prisma.user,
that find unique find
the user by the user ID.
And then you could do
something like include, and
you can include the playlists,
which is really cool.
We'll do some of that later.
It gets really cool there.
Which is really hard to do, if you have
the right sequel, are using Mango?
We need to go to our fetcher.
And we need to resolve this.
So what I need to do is right now
basically fetches needs to be resolved is
returning a response as a promise.
So inside of the fetcher,
need to do .then and
then I'll get a response objects.
I can just return res.json.
And that'll resolve it.
I can also do some really good
error handling here too so,
I can say something
like if res.status is >
299 but, and res.status
>399 and then like < 200.
So I could do that,
that'll throw an error.
So, we'll say, throw new Error.
So we'll throw an error message if it's
greater than that or less than that.
Otherwise do json, so we're good there and
now we should get our playlists here.
So there we go there's our playlist on the
side it's not ordered it's like random.
Okay, so we probably wanna order
these cuz it just doesn't look good.
So we can go back to our playlist
function and in here we can do order by.
And I want to order by the name and
I can say ascending or descending.
I'll say ascending, so
now we're ordered by a name ascending and
I can refresh and there we go.
10 has one in it so it's like there so
obviously it's not perfect, but yeah.
So we've got our playlist,
we made our API call, we can verify,
we look at the network, check out
this fetch tap which is super cool.
There it is.
We get to 200.
And, we get back our playlists here,
which is really awesome.
And all we had to do, was all that work.
[LAUGH] I think this use
Plato's like is really cool,
because this is you don't have to
think about anything now, you just use
this whenever you wanna play this or
use this whenever you wanna use it.
It's very cool.
I like abstracting things out of
components, I hate like initiating and
creating like API calls and the component
just, I don't wanna deal with any of that.
I want everything to be a component or
I want it to be a hook, that's it.
I don't want anything
else in that component.
If it's not that I'm gonna turn it into
that cuz I don't wanna think about
anything up
>> I don't know if I'm oversimplifying
this, but so whenever we're creating
custom hooks is usually the idea
that we wanna use hooks but outside of
a component, we wanted to use useSWR.
You're gonna have to use
it in every component, so
we created a custom hook that
can also run it because.
>> Exactly.
>> You couldn't just use a hook inside
of a normal like function right?
>> Right.
>> Yeah.
>> There hasn't been a component yeah
hooks only works in a functional
component not even classical component.
And that's because the way functional
components work in react is that,
the function itself is
actually the render function.
So you can think of it as as its own call,
whatever reacts says this
component has to re render that
function gets executed again.
So if you didn't have a hook and
all your state were just like variables,
your variables will get reset every
time that component re renders.
So to opt out of that rendering cycle
it's basically tell react like hey,
react I want you to watch these.
I want you to watch these these values for
me and the way you do that is with a hook.
So hook is just you telling react to hey,
please do not reset this I need you
to watch this across re renders.
Whereas in a classical component,
you get that by default because
there's a render method so
everything is just regular JavaScript
until you get to the render method.
But the functional component the whole
function is the render method so
you got to opt out whereas in
the classical point you opt in.
So it's like backwards, so
hooks was their solution to opting out.